[alerting]: adds a connector for xMatters (#122357)
elastic/kibana: docs/management/connectors/action-types/xmatters.asciidoc

. Allow resolvers to take immediate action with customizable notification responses, including incident creation.
. Reduce manual tasks so teams can streamline their resources and focus.

[float]
[[xmatters-connector-prerequisites]]
==== Prerequisites
To use the Elastic xMatters connector either install the Elastic workflow template, or add the Elastic Alerts trigger to one of your existing xMatters flows. Once the workflow or trigger is in your xMatters instance, configure Elastic to send alerts to xMatters.

. In xMatters, double-click the Elastic trigger to open the settings menu.
. Choose the authentication method and set your authenticating user.
. Copy the initiation URL.
. In Elastic, open the xMatters connector.
. Set the authentication method, then paste the initiation URL.

Note: If you use basic authentication, specify the Web / App Login ID in the user credentials for the connector. This value can be found in the Edit Profile modal in xMatters for each user.
For detailed configuration instructions, see https://help.xmatters.com/ondemand/#cshid=ElasticTrigger[xMatters online help]

> Mustache template variables (the text enclosed in double braces, for example, `context.rule.name`) have

Reviewer: I don't think this paragraph is needed.  Users aren't exposed to any JSON anyway, so they shouldn't need to be concerned about this.  And the variable name used is rule-type specific, so not a good choice as an example.

Looks like it was copied from the webhook connector, where it is appropriate.

Tags:: Comma-separated list of tags for the rule as provided by the user in Elastic.

[float]
[[xmatters-benefits]]
==== Configure xMatters

By integrating with xMatters, you can:

. Leverage schedules, rotations, escalations, and device preferences to quickly engage the right resources.
. Allow resolvers to take immediate action with customizable notification responses, including incident creation.
. Reduce manual tasks so teams can streamline their resources and focus.

[float]
[[xmatters-connector-prerequisites]]
==== Prerequisites
To use the Elastic xMatters connector either install the Elastic workflow template, or add the Elastic Alerts trigger to one of your existing xMatters flows. Once the workflow or trigger is in your xMatters instance, configure Elastic to send alerts to xMatters.

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/xmatters-copy-url.png[Elastic Trigger in xMatters]

. In xMatters, double-click the Elastic trigger to open the settings menu.
. Choose the authentication method and set your authenticating user.
. Copy the Initiation URL.
. In Elastic, open the xMatters connector.
. Set the authentication method, then paste the Initiation URL.

> Note: if using Basic authentication, make sure you use the Web / App Login ID. This value can be found in the Edit Profile modal for each user.

Reviewer 2: I think we should be clearer about where we're getting these IDs from and where we're using them. For example:
```suggestion
Note: If you use basic authentication, specify the Web / App Login ID in the user credentials for the connector. This value can be found in the Edit Profile modal in xMatters for each user.
```

URL:: The request URL for the Elastic Alerts trigger in xMatters. If you are using the <<action-settings, `xpack.actions.allowedHosts`>> setting, make sure the hostname is added to the allowed hosts.
Username::                                                                                                                                                      Username for HTTP Basic Authentication.
Password::                                                                                                                                                      Password for HTTP Basic Authentication.

[float]
[[xmatters-connector-networking-configuration]]
==== Connector networking configuration

Use the <<action-settings, Action configuration settings>> to customize connector networking configurations, such as proxies, certificates, or TLS settings. You can set configurations that apply to all your connectors or use `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` to set per-host configurations.

[float]
[[Preconfigured-xmatters-configuration]]
==== Preconfigured connector type

[source,text]
--
 my-xmatters:
   name: preconfigured-xmatters-connector-type
   actionTypeId: .xmatters
   config:

>      url: https://test.host

Reviewer 3: This should be updated to `configUrl` and needs `usesBasic`?

I would add two example preconfigurations, one for basic auth and one for url auth.

Reviewer 3: @msimpson-xm Can we update the preconfigured connector example to show `configUrl` or `secretsUrl` instead of `url`?

Author: I'm not sure how I missed this! I will add to my latest changes :) thanks Ying

   secrets:
     user: testuser
     password: passwordkeystorevalue
     url: https://test.host?apiKey=1234-abcd
--

Config defines information for the connector type.

> `url`:: A URL string that corresponds to *URL*. Only used if `usesBasic` is true.

Reviewer 3: `configUrl`

`usesBasic`:: A boolean that corresponds to *Authentication Type*. If `true`, this connector will require values for `user` and `password` inside the secrets configuration. Defaults to `true`.

Secrets defines sensitive information for the connector type.

`user`:: A string that corresponds to *User*. Required if `usesBasic` is set to `true`.

`password`:: A string that corresponds to *Password*. Should be stored in the <<creating-keystore, {kib} keystore>>. Required if `usesBasic` is set to `true`.

> `url`:: A URL string that corresponds to *URL*. Only used if `usesBasic` is false, indicating the API Key is included in the URL.

Reviewer 3: `secretsUrl`
